---
title: "CodeBook"
author: "Fiona Yeung"
date: "Sunday, April 26, 2015"
output: html_document
---

This codebook contains the description of the tidy data set generated by run_analysis.R. The details of this generation process is included in README.md. This document describes the variables in the resulting "tidy_dataset.txt".

This "tidy_dataset.txt" is derived from the original data downloaded from the assignment's website. In this dataset, only variables pertaining to the mean and standard deviation for each measurement are retained. Each row represents the average of each of these variables for each activity and each subject. The columns "subjects" and "activityLabels" contain factor variables that represent the subject IDs and activity labels, respectively. Their values are consistent with the original data files, subject_test.txt, subject_train.txt, and activity_labels.txt. The rest of the columns are of numeric type. The header of the file shows the column names, which are very similar to the names of the features provided in features.txt. The meaning and the collection method for these measurements can be found in the documentation for the original data.


As in the original data, the tidy data set contains features that are normalized and bounded within [-1, 1]. As part of the tidy data principle (see reference in README.md), each variable forms a column, each observation forms a row, same observational unit in a table. There are no duplicated rows or columns. The data set will also have the header as the column names if read it in using the following command in R:

**tidy_data = read.table("tidy_dataset.txt", header = TRUE)**


The following are the columns in the tidy data set. In the interest of space conservation, only every 4th column number is shown on the left. Row name is not used in this data set.

 [1] subjects                  activityLabels            tBodyAcc.mean.X           tBodyAcc.mean.Y          
 [5] tBodyAcc.mean.Z           tBodyAcc.std.X            tBodyAcc.std.Y            tBodyAcc.std.Z           
 [9] tGravityAcc.mean.X        tGravityAcc.mean.Y        tGravityAcc.mean.Z        tGravityAcc.std.X        
[13] tGravityAcc.std.Y         tGravityAcc.std.Z         tBodyAccJerk.mean.X       tBodyAccJerk.mean.Y      
[17] tBodyAccJerk.mean.Z       tBodyAccJerk.std.X        tBodyAccJerk.std.Y        tBodyAccJerk.std.Z       
[21] tBodyGyro.mean.X          tBodyGyro.mean.Y          tBodyGyro.mean.Z          tBodyGyro.std.X          
[25] tBodyGyro.std.Y           tBodyGyro.std.Z           tBodyGyroJerk.mean.X      tBodyGyroJerk.mean.Y     
[29] tBodyGyroJerk.mean.Z      tBodyGyroJerk.std.X       tBodyGyroJerk.std.Y       tBodyGyroJerk.std.Z      
[33] tBodyAccMag.mean          tBodyAccMag.std           tGravityAccMag.mean       tGravityAccMag.std       
[37] tBodyAccJerkMag.mean      tBodyAccJerkMag.std       tBodyGyroMag.mean         tBodyGyroMag.std         
[41] tBodyGyroJerkMag.mean     tBodyGyroJerkMag.std      fBodyAcc.mean.X           fBodyAcc.mean.Y          
[45] fBodyAcc.mean.Z           fBodyAcc.std.X            fBodyAcc.std.Y            fBodyAcc.std.Z           
[49] fBodyAccJerk.mean.X       fBodyAccJerk.mean.Y       fBodyAccJerk.mean.Z       fBodyAccJerk.std.X       
[53] fBodyAccJerk.std.Y        fBodyAccJerk.std.Z        fBodyGyro.mean.X          fBodyGyro.mean.Y         
[57] fBodyGyro.mean.Z          fBodyGyro.std.X           fBodyGyro.std.Y           fBodyGyro.std.Z          
[61] fBodyAccMag.mean          fBodyAccMag.std           fBodyBodyAccJerkMag.mean  fBodyBodyAccJerkMag.std  
[65] fBodyBodyGyroMag.mean     fBodyBodyGyroMag.std      fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag.mean fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag.std 